h1(#channels_statistic). Channel Statistics Configuration

h2(#push_stream_channels_statistics). push_stream_channels_statistics <a name="push_stream_channels_statistics" href="#">&nbsp;</a>

*syntax:* _push_stream_channels_statistics_

*context:* _location_

*release version:* _0.2.0_

Defines a location as a source of statistics. You can use this location to get statistics about a specific, group or all channels, in a resumed or summarized way.
To get statistics about:
- all channels in a summarized way, you have to make a GET in this location without specify a name in the push_stream_channels_path directive.
- all channels in a detailed way, you have to specify "ALL" in the push_stream_channels_path.
- prefixed channels in a detailed way, you have to specify "_prefix_ *" in the push_stream_channels_path.
- a channel, you have to specify the name in the push_stream_channels_path.
- some channels, you have to specify their names in the push_stream_channels_path.

You can get statistics in the formats plain, xml, yaml and json. The default is json, to change this behavior you can use *Accept* header parameter passing values like "text/plain", "application/xml", "application/yaml" and "application/json" respectively.

<pre>
  location /channels-stats {
      push_stream_channels_statistics;
      push_stream_channels_path               $arg_id;
  }

  # /channels-stats -> get statistics about all channels in a summarized way
  # /channels-stats?id=ALL -> get statistics about all channels in a detailed way
  # /channels-stats?id=channel_* -> get statistics about all channels which starts with 'channel_'
  # /channels-stats?id=channel_id -> get statistics about a channel
  # /channels-stats?id=channel_id_1/channel_id_5 -> get statistics about some channels
</pre>
