h1(#variables). Variables

h2(#push_stream_channel_id). push_stream_channel_id <a name="push_stream_channel_id" href="#">&nbsp;</a>

*values:* _channel id_

*location:* _push_stream_publisher, push_stream_channels_statistics_

A string to uniquely identify a communication channel. Must be present on location of the push_stream_publisher and push_stream_channels_statistics.

<pre>
set $push_stream_channel_id $arg_id;
#channel id is now the url query string parameter "id"
#(/pub?id=channel_id_string or /channels-stats?id=channel_id_string)
</pre>


h2(#push_stream_channels_path). push_stream_channels_path <a name="push_stream_channels_path" href="#">&nbsp;</a>

*values:* _set of channels id and backtrack desired messages_

*location:* _push_stream_subscriber_

A string representing a set of channels id and backtrack desired messages separated by slash, example _/channel1.b3/channel2.b5/channel3.b2_.
The backtrack means the amount of old messages from each of the channels that will be delivered to the subscriber. On the example will be 3 messages from channel1, 5 from channel2 and 2 from channel3.
Backtrack isn't needed, you can only sign channels without get old messages, or you can mix things.
More accepted examples: _/channel1_ , _/channel1/channel2_ , _/channel1.b5/channel2_ , _/channel1/channel2.b6_ , ...
Must be present on location of the push_stream_subscriber.

<pre>
location /sub/(.*) {
  set $push_stream_channels_path $1;
}
#channels path is now part of url
#(/sub/channel_id_string or /sub/channel_id_string.b2/other_channel)
</pre>
